Document creating user-defined cluster roles for cluster-scoped instances (#77943)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-disabling-the-creation-of-the-default-cluster-roles-for-the-cluster-scoped-instance.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * declarative_clusterconfig/customizing-permissions-by-creating-user-defined-cluster-roles-for-cluster-scoped-instances.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-disabling-the-creation-of-the-default-cluster-roles-for-the-cluster-scoped-instance_{context}"]
= Disabling the creation of the default cluster roles for the cluster-scoped instance

To add or remove permissions to cluster-wide resources, as needed, you must disable the creation of the default cluster roles for the cluster-scoped instance by editing the `ArgoCD` custom resource (CR) YAML file.

.Procedure

> . Set the value of the `.spec.defaultClusterScopedRoleDisabled` field to `true`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the `ArgoCD` CR, set the value of the `.spec.defaultClusterScopedRoleDisabled` field to `true`:
```

+
.Example Argo CD custom resource

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:

>   name: example <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: example # <1>
```

>   namespace: spring-petclinic <2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  namespace: spring-petclinic # <2>
```

Also, should this value be a replaceable (e.g. `namespace: <namespace_name>`)? I think users will recognize that `spring-petclinic` is just an example, but making it a replaceable makes it even more obvious.

# ...
spec:

>   defaultClusterScopedRoleDisabled: true <3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  defaultClusterScopedRoleDisabled: true # <3>
```

# ...
----
<1> The name of the default Argo CD instance.
<2> The namespace where you want to run the Argo CD instance.
<3> The flag value that disables the creation of the default cluster roles for the cluster-scoped instance.
+
.Sample output
[source,terminal]
----
argocd.argoproj.io/example configured
----

. Verify that the {gitops-title} Operator has deleted the default cluster roles and cluster role bindings for the {gitops-shortname} control plane components by running the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get ClusterRoles -l app.kubernetes.io/part-of=argocd
----
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get ClusterRoleBindings -l app.kubernetes.io/part-of=argocd

Reviewer 2: I think this could create confusion, if there is another cluster-scoped instance running, which is using default ClusterRoles then `oc get ClusterRoles -l app.kubernetes.io/part-of=argocd` command will list those as well, instead we can be specific that default ClusterRoles targeting user's instance should be deleted.
`oc get ClusterRoles/<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-<control_plane_component>`

----
+
.Sample output
[source,terminal]
----
No resources found
----
+

> The default cluster roles and cluster role bindings for the cluster-scoped instance will not be created. As a cluster administrator, you can now create and customize permissions for cluster-scoped instances by creating new cluster roles and cluster role bindings for the {gitops-shortname} control plane components. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default cluster roles and cluster role bindings for the cluster-scoped instance are not created. As a cluster administrator, you can now create and customize permissions for cluster-scoped instances by creating new cluster roles and cluster role bindings for the {gitops-shortname} control plane components. 
```

[NOTE]
====

> If you want the Operator to recreate the default cluster roles and cluster role bindings for the cluster-scoped instance, set the field value to `false`.

Reviewer: Does this refer to the `defaultClusterScopedRoleDisabled` field in the YAML of the first step? If so, I suggest putting this information in that field's callout description.
